--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mission Man Editing Steps by Roons
roons@pacificnet.net

A pack of early post info collated into one big text file by BPLlama!  WOOOOOO!
Some O this might be a touch outdated & inaccurate, but it's still a helpful step-by-step guide.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Roons' Step by Step for dummies

Myself and a few others do plan on writing up some tutorials once we work out the details on using MissionMan. It'll probably be
another week or two until we have the basics down in a readable format. There is even talk of a dedicate webpage to editing, we
shall see. 

Using MissionMan is fairly complicated; however, the learning curve is relativly short IF you know what to do. The problem is right
now, there is very little information on what to do. So we are all learning by experimentation and trial and error.

Once there are a few tutorials out there, creating maps will be much easier; Yet, using MissionMan will still be more complex than
using the map editors that come with games such as StarCraft, RedAlert, AoE, or many other RTS. This is due to the fact
everything is in 3D, so it is much more like a 3D imaging program than a 2D RTS map editor.

A few of us have created some very basic maps so far. Building a map is a very time consuming process based on what we know.
The most tedious part is setting the X, Y, Z coordinates for EVERY object within the map. This includes resources, nebulas, and
ships. Once you see the default maps that come with Homeworld in the editor, you start to appreciate the amount of work they put
into them. There is alot of geometry going down. There may be shortcuts we discover along the way; however, right now it is a very
dedicated process.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mission Man Editing Part 1 - Introduction 

I took a minute to check out MissionMan for ya. I plan on using it alot. I'm currently making a MOD for Half-Life, so I have some
experience with WorldCraft, 3DStudio Max, and other editors.
Anyways, Mission Man looks top notch. I would rate it intermediate in its complexity. It is set up in the standard 4 screen set up
much like most 3D editors. Primary displays are in a 3D wireframe view.

Here is a snip from the help section:
"Creating a new mission is easy. Simply click on File, then Create, type a new folder name, then click Save, and MissionMan will
open a new, blank mission template in that folder. A new mission is composed of a universe containing two MissionSpheres, (one
for each player) and a ResourceSphere. The MissionSpheres are where you place a mothership and other ships for each player.
There is one ResourceSphere in each mission. This is where all of the resources are located. You can customize the blank mission
template by adding more ships to the MissionSpheres and more resources to the ResourceSphere. Most objects have properties
and attributes that can be changed as well. If you want more than two players, you will need to create additional MissionSpheres.
Steps one through three will further explain how to perform these operations."

There is alot more details included in the help sections. Its definetly more complex than say the editor for StarCraft. However, from
what I can tell, it would only take a few hours to get over the learning curve.

Here is a little more on what you can edit:
- Lighting
- Background
- smZoomMax (sets the maximum zoom range for the sensors manager)
- smZoomMin (sets the minimum zoom range for the sensors manager)
- smInitialDistance
- smUniverseSizeX (sets the width of the universe)
- smUniverseSizeY (sets the height of the universe)
- smUniverseSizeZ (sets the depth of the universe)
- ExcludeShips (sets which ships will not be used in a mission)
- IncludeShips (sets which ships will be used in a mission)
- ExcludeAsteroid (sets which asteroid will not be used in a mission)
- IncludeAsteroid (sets which asteroids will be used in a mission)
- ExcludeDerelict (sets which derelicts will not be used in a mission)
- IncludeDerelict (sets which derelicts will be used in a mission)
- BaseColor (sets the base color of ships)
- StripColor (sets the stripe colors of ships)
- AvailableColorSchemes (sets the colors available for ships)
- SongNumber (sets which song will be played in a mission)"

There doesn't seem to be a TON of documenation in the help file, so it looks like alot of experimentation will be necessary. I expect
a sort of elite group of map editors to be the norm, rather than alot of amateur map builders since it seems a little intimidating.

I still am unsure as to the ability to make custom mission exactly like that in the single player game and stringing them together
(adding custom waves for voices, using special units and mission objects) or if Mission Man only allows for the creation of
multiplayer maps. Once I have more time to experiment with it, I'll let you know.

I would be glad to help out in editing any way I can, and will do my best to share any info I learn about MissionMan.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mission Man Editing Part 2 - Map Transfers 

Good news! Custom maps are transferable over WON!
I was able to test if a basic custom map I created using the MissionMan editor would transfer to players who joined my game.

Thanks to VonEsling, Killer_450, and ET336K for helping me test this out. I appreciate their help alot.

A custom map will appear in the same section as the regular maps that come with Homeworld when choosing the scenario to play.
Once all players have joined and the game is launched, the following message appears:

"Detected Custom Map. Autoupload included in load time"

Then the standard load screen will appear with the chat window indicating the status of each players loading time. A custom map is
about 250kb in size, so map transfers shouldn't take that long.

Its a great day in Homeworld since we now know for sure that custom maps will be easily distributed throughout the community!

Thanks again VonEsling, Killer_450, and ET336K for your help! I definetly couldn't have done it without you!

Ill be working hard on the custom map I've started in hopes to have it out very soon. As I learn more about MissionMan, I will be sure
to post about it here on the Boards.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mission Man Editing Part 3 - Basic Map Creating 

Here is some more info on map editing in a response to Demon-Dog who is as crazy as I am in attempting to use Mission Man 

Hi, Im glad someone else is trying to figure out Mission Man too. 

Ok, well, to get started of course you read the help.doc. It has the VERY basic way to start in creating a map. After selecting
create, I choose a name for my map similar to those used by Relic. Once the folder is created, it will create the file *.mdr which is
where the core of information regarding the map is stored. The #1 one way I've learned what to do so far is by editing the already
existing maps provided by Relic.

Most of the main work is done in the tree to the left. I first started by renaming the top fields of NewMission: Multiplayer and New
Level by right clicking on them and editing their properties.

Next, because I want to create maps playable by more than two people, I need to add two more mission_spheres for a total of four.
For ease of reference, Ill use the default names I changed listed in the above paragraph. Since the mission_spheres are located in
the New Level root, right click on New Level and select New Object. Basically, every thing in a map is an Object and every Object
has an attribute.

Once the Object window is open, we need to specific a type of Object. Select the top pulldown window titled Type, and scroll down
to Mission Sphere. Next, in the Name pulldown window, you need to select the MothershipR1 or R2 to tell it that its going to be a
player. R1 = Kushan, R2=Taiidan. I have yet to figure out how this is applied during a multiplayer map as it seems to make no
difference since a player chooses their own race. Next, you can select a Layer to which this object belongs, its not necessary, but
as the map gets cluttered, you can use layers to only see units, resources, or misc. objects.

At the bottom you will see coordinate fields for X Y and Z. This is where you select the starting point for the object. Its location on
the map, orientation, scale and size. 0 is the very center of the map. So placement is done with positive and negative numbers. So,
for example, to ships on one map facing each other would probably have X values of -50000 and 50000 respectively. This is where
the 3d map comes into play as you can see immediately where the object is placed.

Now, as you might see in the maps that came with Homeworld. You just dont start with a Mothership, but a RC, maybe some
scouts, and a research ship. To add these, go to one of the Mission_Spheres, and select the ShipR1,Mothership field so its
highlighted. Next right click on the highlighted section and choose Insert Object. The follow is much like adding a mission_shere;
however, you scroll down in Type and choose Ship. In name, you will see all the ships available in the game. Placement for the ship
is exactly like the Mission_sphere.

As you can see so far, it is a rather lengthly process to create a detailed map. However, Im sure as we gain more experience, well
find shortcuts, like cutting and pasting.

You will also need to add a resource sphere, Im still working on this one. The placement and type of resouce is choosen much like
ships, however, there are somethings you have to do to a resource spehre which is different than a ship. One of these is setting the
distribution. Once the resource is created, say an Asteroid, you need to select the field Distribution and right click and select
Attribute Properties. Now, at first everything is blank, you need to go into one of the map folders that came with Homeworld and cut
and past all of the *.dist files into your new folder. I believe these files set the distribution (spacing) of the resouces inside the
resouce_sphere. They appear to be editable in notepad, but I have yet to really experiment with the settings.

Now, since we done all of the above, we can Generate the map to make it ready for play. To generate the map, we must be in the
VERY TOP root section of the menu. So, that would be New Mission: Multiplayer. Right click on it and choose Generate Mission. If
you renamed the sections I mentioned before, and did most of what I said, you should now be able to see your new custom map
listed along with the other multiplayer maps. You can use the skirmish mode in multiplayer to test you maps. 

If you go online to WON, and host a game, it will autodown to the other players.

Now, there is ALOT I still need to learn about Mission Man. The above is what Ive learned in about 4 hours of work. So, PLEASE, if
you learn anything, post it here.

Anyways, we got alot to learn, but Im sure we can do it. Ive spent the past couple days finishing Homeworld, and finished it, and it
was the coolest game Ive played in a VERY long time. There are alot of good map designs in the game, which I know we can bring
some of their elements into multiplayer.

So lets get to work and have some fun. 8)

Hope to here from you and all future map makers.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

How to: Make a resource cloud by LupusUmbrus

CREDIT TO LupusUmbrus FOR POSTING THIS INFORMATION!

I guess I'll start a series of "How to" posts on here. If any one has a somewhat specific question they would liked answered, I'll try to
figure it out for ya. 
How to create resource clusters:

First off, create a 'New Object' in your resource sphere [for me its usually the first "sphere" on the tree].

For the "Type", select one of the following:
•Astroid-Use the first 'Astroid' in the list for a rectangular astroid cluster
•Astroid-Use the 2nd 'Astroid' to create either a sphere or cylinder cluster
•DustCloud-Creates a sphere or cylider cluster of dust clouds
•GasCloud-Same as DustCloud only for gas clouds
•Nebula-Creates a nebula

Now we need to create a distrabution file [a *.dist file]. First, either copy and paste one over from one of the maps that have been
made or simply create text file and change its extention to .dist.
In that file you list the type of resource you want, and the relitive ditribution in the cluster. Let me use a DustCloud *.dist file as an
example:
BOF------------------------------------------

DustCloud0 0 0
DustCloud1 10 2
DustCloud2 35 1
DustCloud3 15 3

EOF------------------------------------------

Now the fist column lists the diffrent things we're sticking into our DustCloud cluster. The second gives us the relitive number of
times each will occur. This means that for roughly every 35 DustCloud2's I use there should be 15 DustCloud3's, etc. If you make
the numbers in this column add up to 100 then the numbers you use represent percentages. As for the third column, I am not entirly
sure, but I have a hunch that it has something to do with how/if it regenerates or something to that effect.

Now lets use that *.dist file. Go to MissionMan and find the cluster you made. Now click on the little plus[+] symbol next to it to see
the extra stuff associated with it. Double-click on "distrabution" and click the little arrow next to "Value". Now select the *.dist file
you just made. Hit 'OK'.

Now, right below "distribution" you should see "numResources". Double-click it. This tells it roughly how many RU's it should pump
into the resource cluster.

As for "properties" and "propertiesParam", I have not experimented enough to determine what these do.

And there you have it, a cluster of resources. Using the x,y,z properties on the cluster you should be able to move it around and
shrink/enlargen your cluster.

[Wow, lots of typing]
I know in some areas I am not quite clear so ask any questions you might have and I'd be happy to answer them.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

How to: Make a resource cluster regenerate by LupusUmbrus

Ok, so we know how to make a cluster of resources. Now if you play the map you'll notice that the cluster once harvested doesn't
come back.
How to make a resource cluster regenerate:

Open up Mission Man and then your map and lets do a little work. Find the resource cluster in question. Now click the little plus[+]
symbol next to it so we can see the additional properties of the cluster.

Ok, now double-click on properties[should be right below numResources] and enter the number 2048 in the value field.
This is the bitvalue neccesary to turn on regeneration. Now double-click propertiesParam. Enter 2 in the value field. This is a bitvalue
also, but its true function is still vauge.

(NOTE - That 2 is NOT a bitvalue.  It's a rate of regeneration from 0 (slow) to 7 (fast))

Now, make sure that the *.dist file used by the cluster has the 3rd column in it. This controls something with the rate/relitive
propability at which the objects regenerate.
The 3rd column is the second column of #'s, and is not neccesary for clusters you don't have set to regenerate.

Side Notes:
In most cases you should have at least one cluster regenerate on the map. Without at least one, its possible for both sides to
harvest the entire map leaving nothing left to:
1)Fight for control of
2)Supply resources for people to rebuild lost ships

Limiting the size,location,and number of clusters you have on the map that regenerate will add strategic points to the map. Having a
single medium size cluster near the middle of the map focuses the fight to the center.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mission Man Editing Part 4 - Map Not Found / Working

Hi, its late Sunday nite, Im tired, I have to work tomorrow, but Ill try my best to be coherent. :)

I think each map needs a resource_sphere in order for it to work correctly. Resource spheres are set up much like a
mission_sphere; however, instead of ships, they hold...resources. Now, I set up one resource sphere in the map I tested on WON
which loaded and worked. I was a single resource sphere, real simple, patterned directly off of one of ther asteroid resource spheres
in the other maps that came with Homeworld. Try adding a resource sphere much like a mission sphere and edit its attributes to
match those of the ones found in the multiplayer default maps. Remember to copy those *.dist files into the new folder of your map
so you can set the distribution of the resources when you adjust its attributes.

I can see having no resources as a result of a map not working.

Now, regarding it not showing up. Once you have mission_spheres, and a resource_sphere, you need to Generate Mission. The
way I did it is select the VERY TOP field in the left menu, New Mission: Multiplayer if you havent changed the name, right click on
it, and choose generate map. I guess this is how it compiles itself.

Ill be working out details on the resource_spheres and other misc. objects such as alien ship and debris fields this week. Ill keep
you all posted.

Oh yeah, and regarding the x y z thing. Its like geometry 101. Imagine a 3D sphere, X is left and right, Y is up and down, Z is in and
out. A typical distance from one player to another during startup is, I think, around 80000 units. So from center, one unit would be
-40000 and the other 40000, which gives a total distance of 80000. You then adjust its height in the Y, and its depth on Z. The
easiest way to figure whats going on is to use the 3D view which is located on the upper right screen in the 4 window view. You can
adjust the camera and pan around much like that in Homeworld and other 3D design tools. The help.doc gives the camera
instructions on how to do this. You can also zoom out and move around in the X Y Z windows as well; however, since they are 2D
only, there is no rotate.

Anyways, Im passing out as I type this. I get those resouces figured out asap so we can really start making some good maps for
multiplayer.

Good Luck! and remember not to give up! No one remembers a map that was never made or something. Brain shuttin..g..
d.o..w.n....

Anolis:
First off, no resource maps DO work, they were the first maps I made. Even thought they don't have resources though, they do have
a resource sphere.

Led Mirage:
1- The mission.mdr is only for Mission Man, get rid of it for distributing.

2- I created my map in Mission man, then worked with the text editors 100%, well see those comments MM leaves on the files?
guess what i removed them and the game CRASHES!!! WEIRD!!! took me 2 hrs to figure it out DOH!
so DONT touch them (makes no sense to me but it is that)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mission Man Editing Part 5 - Text Editing and New Objects! 


I've done some more experimenting.

First, many of the map files located in the map folder can be edited and viewed in notepad. This includes all the *.dist files, which
appear to set the distribution of the look and type of the rocks in a resource patch. Also viewable in notepad is the *.level file, which
seems to hold the specifications regarding player mission sphere starting positions and what objects are included and excluded.
The last viewable type is the *.missphere files, which lists the details, such as type of ships and location, included in each specific
mission sphere.

Useing these files in a text editor might be a little bit easier to edit certain properties. I've also been using cut n paste in the menu
section which has increased adding objects considerably. You can also open one of the default maps, copy a resource, open your
new map, and paste it there. Even though your map isnt viewable, Mission Man remembers your map as the new one is open, so
no need to constantly generate the mission when switching between maps.

Ok, here is the COOLEST part! You can add and USE! new objects!. I was able to add a ship called the Head Asteroid. Its basically
a giant asteroid with an engine. Once its placed in the missionsphere of a player, that player can control it and move it around! I
believe its the giant asteroid that was heading towards your ship in one particular single player mission that was guarded by the
enemy fleet. However, you controll it! I was also able to add a cryo tray. Im sure more objects are able to be placed and Ill be adding
the all to see what can and cant be used. One thing of note, once you add these objects, you need to make sure they are not
excluded. In the menu, you will see certain objects after the exclude field, some say ALL, others are more specific, just clear out
the field so nothing is in there. 

I was also able to add the planet models seen in the single player, they are however, only a half-sphere, so they must be placed
outside of the world so they are only seen from afar. But we CAN add them in our multiplayer maps to give a great looking
background! Ill be testing to see if I can group them together to make a whole sphere. Planets are included in the derlict object list,
derlict objects should be placed within the resource_sphere in order for them to appear.

Its rather exciting to know we will probably be able to add and use all the alien ships from single player. It was very cool
commanding that giant asteroid with an engine to fly around. Ill be working some more and will post again tomorrow.

Good Luck! and dont be afraid to post ANYTHING you discover!

Anolis:
Hmm, I have also added a HeadShotAsteroid, but there are 2 files for it. Since the single player mission can be played by either
side, there are 2 of these evil asteroids, one for each side.

As it is these ships work on Newtoin Physics!! I have tested it, the Asteroid starts off with low speed and constant accleration. The
acceleratoin remains constant and the speed keep getting faster and faster and faster. Eventually this thing out-runs strike craft!
What really makes this Newtonian is that if you want to stop it will take you awhile.

To turn around, the asteroid has to turn 180 degrees and start up the thrusters again and slow down (which depending on your
current speed can be a slow proccess) and then it will accelerate in the proper direction. I haven't tested to make sure it completely
adheres to Newtonian Physics, but even when you turn it at an angle that is greater than 90 degrees from its current heading it
makes a loop as its (for simplification) X speed slows down and the Y speed starts up, you really have to see it for yourself, but it
works.

The true test will be in making the Asteroid move 90 degrees to its current heading, will it need to slow down its current heading, will
its speed in the current/former direction stay the same? This needs testing, but shows promise of a full Newtonian based unit
(however suicidal, one-shot, and unbuildable).

On a final note, this unit appears to over-run the position you give it if you use the sensor manager, the speed it builds up over that
long a distance is too great to stop in any short period of time. I know this because about 2/3 of the way through launching the
HeadShotAsteroid at a Comp player I decided to stop and do some more T-Mat testing, but I couldn't. Even when I tried to redirect
the Asteroid along a course that would make it barely pass by the MS, moving at an angle to it current heading, it was unable to
stop itself from colliding. Funniest thing is that it had about 50% (roughly, give or take 20%) of its health left every trial run, nasty
stuff.

Led Mirage:
DONT remove the exclude ALL field!!!!! it eats away precious memory!!!!! just do an include for the object you want in there, it doesnt
matter if all ships were to be excluded, if you had an include for each ship they will still show.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Roons on Getting a map to work (show up in Homeworld)

The problem is in how your map is named. I renamed it:

Galaxy2

After I generated it, it worked! It seems that long names or spaces really mess it up. Also, I changed the Info on the name attributes
to:

Galaxy2 (2-4)

After doing all of that, it loaded and was viewable in the skirmish screen! I still have yet to figure out how to give a discription for the
game, as the default maps have those nice little stories, there is no where to put them in your maps. We'll figure it out since its not
where you had it in the Info field.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mission Man Editing Part 6 - Description & T-Mat Race

I was able to take part in the recent chat on the gamespy network hosted by Journey to Homeworld
(http://www.strategyplanet.com/homeworld/)

I asked the question:
"How do you put in the text description detailing the "story" of a multiplayer map which shows along with the map name?"

YMS from Relic told me we need to include a description.txt file that will contain all the information needed. He sent me a copy of it
and I will post it below. I have yet to work with it, so I assume it is place in the folder along with your other map files and it will just
work. Ill post an update once I successfully use it.

I also asked about limitations or known bugs regarding adding the other alien units. They informed me its untested so they are
unsure as to what will happen. They did mention that the famous T-Mat race is available. To use their ship, their race is the Traders
and their ship is the P3Megaship.

I also asked about how to get a map to allow only 2 players when you have 4 mission spheres set up. I asked this since I have 4
mission spheres in my test map; yet, I want it to be a 2-4 player map. However, when I play the map in skirmish, it REQUIRES that
I add 3 ai to make a total of 4. Here is the answer I got, its a little vague, but hopefully will make sense latter on:

"When you make a mission, eg with 3-5 player support, HomeWorld will detect that automatically by the existance of those files.
For consistency, you can put (3-5) after the name if you like. Also you can't make maps with say only 2,4, or 5 player support (can't
have holes) but you could make a map that supports 5-8 players"

Huh? I know, I tried to elaborate, but I had to leave work.

Anyways, Ill start working on MissionMan and this new information and will keep you all updated!

Description The fear and self loathing the sight of your mighty armada shall evoke in your pathetic and humble enemies will be more
than enough reward to justify the effort of engaging and decimating their forces. A medium-sized map with large resource deposits in
a vertical configuration. Good for intermediate to advanced players.
Description
Description Settings: default.

DescriptionFrench La peur et le ressentiment que devrait provoquer la vue de votre redoutable armada chez l'ennemi faible et
pathétique, devrait plus que suffire à récompenser et à justifier l'effort fourni pour les décimer. Une carte de taille moyenne,
ressources importantes et configuration verticale. Convient à des joueurs de niveau intermédiaire ou avancé.
DescriptionFrench
DescriptionFrench Configuration : par défaut.

DescriptionGerman Die Angst und Selbstzweifel, von denen Ihre erbärmlichen Feinde angesichts Ihrer gewaltigen Armada erfüllt
werden, sollten Ansporn genug sein, deren Streitkräfte anzugreifen und zu dezimieren. Eine Karte mittlerer Größe mit bedeutenden
Vorräten an Ressourcen und ansteigendem Schwierigkeitsgrad. Geeignet für mittlere bis fortgeschrittene Spieler.
DescriptionGerman
DescriptionGerman Einstellungen: Standard.

Font Arial_b12.hff
Color 255, 200, 0
DropShadow Yes


; DEFAULT SETTINGS:
type.flag BIT1 ; destroy mothership
type.flagNeeded BIT1 ; FLAG: destroy mothership

;type.flag BIT2 ; capture capital ship
type.flagNeeded BIT2 ; FLAG: capture capital ship

type.flag BIT3 ; research
type.flagNeeded BIT3 ; FLAG: research

;BIT4 = bounties - Obselete!

type.flag BIT5 ; enable harvesting
type.flagNeeded BIT5 ; FLAG: enable harvesting

;type.flag BIT6 ; resouce injections
type.flagNeeded BIT6 ; FLAG: resource injections

;type.flag BIT7 ; resouce lump sum
type.flagNeeded BIT7 ; FLAG: resource lump sum

;BIT8 = password protected - only let the user change this

type.flag BIT9 ; unit caps
type.flagNeeded BIT9 ; FLAG: unit caps

type.flag BIT10 ; fuel burn
type.flagNeeded BIT10 ; FLAG: fuel burn

type.flag BIT11 ; allied victory
type.flagNeeded BIT11 ; FLAG: allied victory

type.flag BIT12 ; crates
type.flagNeeded BIT12 ; FLAG: crates

;type.flag BIT13 ; carrier only
type.flagNeeded BIT13 ; FLAG: carrier only

type.flag BIT14 ; hyperspace
type.flagNeeded BIT14 ; FLAG: hyperspace

type.numComputers 0
type.startingFleet 1
type.bountySize 3 ; turn off bounties (3 = off)
type.startingResources 1
type.resourceInjectionInterval 14400
type.resourceInjectionsAmount 2000
type.resourceLumpSumTime 19200
type.resourceLumpSumAmount 2000

The above is cut and pasted from the Description.txt file sent to my by YMS.

Just cut and past it into a notepad file and save it as Description.txt

What to do next, Im not sure. I would assume putting it into your map folder and edit the variables to match your map. I might even
have to be name in lower case as description.txt I have no idea.

If ANYONE gets it to work, please post what you did here.

Thanks! 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mission Man Editing Part 7 - Background and Lighting

I was able to figure out how backgrounds work and lighting is set up by tearing apart the Meltdown CD maps and just random
testing. Mmmmm Random.

Lighting and backgrounds are usually setup like this:

lighting ez01
background ex01, 180, 0

By tweaking these settings slowly, I found out the two digits after the ez are the backgrounds for all the single player missions! So,
for example: ez02 = the second mission, ez10 = the tenth mission, and ez16 is the last mission. You can put in any number
between 01 and 16, but I havent been able to get 03 to work. WE HAVE ACCESS TO ALL THE BACKGROUNDS! WOOHOOO!

I did a couple test maps and noticed something right away, since certain maps have a very distinct light source, like the SuperNova
mission, the light source has to be set in a specific way. Its sorta defined much like in Quake or Half-Life, with a degree setting
based on a sphere, sorta. But since the light source is stationary, you can rotate the background by adjusting the two fields after
the ez01 field as listed below:

lighting ez16
background ez16, -90, -20

It took forever to figure this out, but I got the background on the final mission to line up with the light source. It seems the first
number is the horizontal rotation and the second one is vertical. Just try to edit them with negative and positive numbers much like
placing items with the X Y Z coordinates.

We are getting closer to finally being able to make "good" maps. Good Luck and thanks to those whole helped me get this far. You
know who you are. :)

Spittledung:
I am wondering if the lighting for 03 is giving a problem because the location of the action (Kharak system) is the same as 01 ... so
it just uses the lighting for 01 and 03 is just a place holder so the numbers match?

Roons:
That must be it! Yeah, since 01 and 03 take place in the same area, the Kharak system, there isn't any need for a 03.
My brain must have overloaded to miss that one.
Thanks Spittledung for pointing it out.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Led Mirage: Map Editing Info (Variable number of players)

In order for a map to work with 2 to 8 players you have to make 7 maps variants!!!! each one named the same and in their own
separate folders but the last character in the folder name has to be the number of players so you would have the map "TEST" for 2
to 4 players like this:

- 3 actual maps each in their own folders.

- The folder and mission names would be TEST2, TEST3 and TEST 4.

- TEST 2 would be the variant for 2 players, TEST 3 for 3 players, and on and on.

so there you go, this is how you can make a map work with a variable number of players, if you only make a map for 4 players
named TEST4 you HAVE to have 4 players, so this is the only way to do it that i have found.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MajroMax:
Can someone here detail exactly what one needs to do to generate a map and get it to show up in the CPU/Skirmish option in HW
Multiplayer Menu?

So far as I can tell, I have followed what instructions I could gather to the letter, but still no dice.

Map Name, Level Name are all set to the folder. Info under level is set to something. Info under multiplayer can be set to something.
No real ships, no resource (but a resourcesphere), so no conflict apparantly there.

After Generating the Map, it does not show. Any ideas?

Roons:
The name of the map and the folder have to be EXACTLY the same. CaSe matters. So first make sure if you capitalize the first
letter of the map, the folder is the same, and viceversa.

Let us know if that works.

Led Mirage:
Also the map names HAVE to end up in the number of players the map is intended for and the *.level file has to be named the same
as the folder, if you are missing either, the map WONT show up in the game.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

